Add InfluxDB v3 ingestion samples (#250)
awslabs/amazon-timestream-tools: sample_apps/python/influxdb/influxdb_v3_ingestion/README.md

# InfluxDB v3 Ingestion Samples

## Overview

The samples in this directory demonstrate how to use the [InfluxDB v3 Python client](https://github.com/InfluxCommunity/influxdb3-python) to write Parquet and CSV files to InfluxDB v3. Additionally, samples are included in which data is downloaded from S3 and ingested. These samples are demonstrative, and show how the client can be used, they are not full-featured tools.

> If you are familiar with InfluxDB v3, you will notice (as of December 2025) that neither InfluxDB v3's [Core](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb3/core/api/v3/#operation/PostV2Write) nor [Enterprise](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb3/enterprise/api/v3/#operation/PostV2Write) APIs support writing CSV or Parquet data. CSV and Parquet data ingestion is accomplished using [InfluxDB v3 client libraries](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb3/cloud-dedicated/reference/client-libraries/v3/). The clients vary in their support of writing from file; these samples uses the [InfluxDB v3 Python client](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb3/cloud-dedicated/reference/client-libraries/v3/python/) as it provides many options for writing from file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are familiar with InfluxDB v3, you will notice (as of December 2025) that neither InfluxDB v3's [Core](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb3/core/api/v3/#operation/PostV2Write) nor [Enterprise](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb3/enterprise/api/v3/#operation/PostV2Write) support writing CSV or Parquet data directly through the HTTP API. CSV and Parquet data ingestion is accomplished using [InfluxDB v3 client libraries](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb3/cloud-dedicated/reference/client-libraries/v3/). The clients vary in their support of writing from file; these samples uses the [InfluxDB v3 Python client](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb3/cloud-dedicated/reference/client-libraries/v3/python/) as it provides many options for writing from file.
```

Reviewer: or alternatively, maybe we can even omit that sentence (makes one less assumption about users)

Author: They use different APIs, so "the HTTP API" isn't accurate. What assumption am I making about users?

Reviewer: Core and Enterprise [client] APIs both support writing CSV or parquet, so your general statement sounded wrong (though you explicitly clarify in the next sentence) - if you're referring to those specific endpoints no longer allowing CSV/parquet formats, then referring to the HTTP API seems consistent.

The (soft) assumption Im referring to is on users' familiarity with the API, which I dont think we need to explicitly state or account for, especially given that these ingest samples are probably going to be for those that aren't too familiar with InfluxDB 3 anyway.

Author: I've now specified that the HTTP APIs don't support CSV or Parquet ingestion.

"If you are familiar with InfluxDB v3, . . ." is an informal way of introducing the topic. It doesn't state or account for the user's knowledge. It states a fact. A more formal way to write this would be to cut everything before "neither", but I don't think this README needs to be entirely formal.

> . . . these ingest samples are probably going to be for those that aren't too familiar with InfluxDB 3 anyway.

As far as I am aware, only the InfluxDB v3 Python library can ingest files. A user may be very familiar with InfluxDB v3, but have only ever used the Go client. I don't want to assume the user's knowledge, and my introduction doesn't.

Be sure to view the contents of each sample. Writing data from file to InfluxDB v3 can be done with a few lines of code:

```python
with InfluxDBClient3(
    host=influxdb_v3_host
    database=influxdb_v3_database_name,
    token=influxdb_v3_token,
) as client:
    client.write_file(
        file="./data/sample_data.parquet",
        measurement_name="parquet_measurement",
        timestamp_column="timestamp_utc",
        tag_columns=["region", "meter_id", "project_id", "olc_id"],
    )
```
Documentation for `InfluxDBClient3.write_file` can be found [here](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb3/cloud-dedicated/reference/client-libraries/v3/python/#influxdbclient3write_file).

> Much of the content of each sample includes callbacks. These callbacks are not used as data is ingested synchronously, but serve to show how callbacks could be implemented.

Reviewer: IMO I think it would be cleaner to remove the callbacks from these ingest scripts (especially since we're not actually using it) and if we wanted to demonstrate callbacks, it can be in separate scripts?

Author: I have removed the callbacks. The callbacks come from the InfluxDB v3 Python client documentation; I have pointed this out in the README if users want to learn more about how to ingest asynchronously.

## Prerequisites

Before running any of the samples, you must do the following:

1. [Create a Timestream for InfluxDB v3 instance](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/timestream/latest/developerguide/getting-started-with-timestream-for-influxdb-3.html) and retrieve its admin token.
2. [Download and install Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
3. [Create a database in Timestream for InfluxDB v3](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb3/core/reference/cli/influxdb3/create/database/).
3. The samples operate entirely with environment variables. Set the following environment variables:
   - `INFLUX_HOST`: The URL of your Timestream for InfluxDB v3 instance, including scheme (such as `https`) and port. For example, `"https://example.com:8181"`.
   - `INFLUX_TOKEN`: The admin token from your Timestream for InfluxDB v3 instance.
   - `INFLUX_DATABASE`: The name of the database that you created in your Timestream for InfluxDB v3 instance.
4. For the samples that use data from S3:

   a. [Create an S3 bucket](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/create-bucket-overview.html).

>    b. Upload all files from `./data` to your bucket. You can use any path within the bucket. By default, the path `influxdb_v3_sample_data/` will be searched within the bucket. For example, CSV data would be searched for within the S3 bucket in `influxdb_v3_sample_data/sample_data.csv`.

Reviewer: can we include a helpful snippet using awscli for the s3 bucket creation and upload with ./data?

Author: I have added snippets for creating a bucket and uploading files from `./data`.

   c. In addition to the above environment variables, set the following environment variables:
      - `S3_BUCKET_NAME`: The name of the S3 bucket you created.
      - `S3_OBJECT_KEY`: The object key for the sample data within your S3 bucket. This defaults to `influxdb_v3_sample_data/sample_data.csv` and `influxdb_v3_sample_data/sample_data.parquet` for the respective samples.
5. Create a Python virtual environment:
   ```shell
   python3 -m venv .env
   source .env/bin/activate
   ```
6. Download and install all Python dependencies:
   ```shell
   python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

## Run Samples

After meeting the above prerequisites, run one of the samples:

```shell
python3 ingest_csv.py
```

> Data will be read from a file in the `./data/` directory (or possibly S3, if you run one of the samples that use S3), ingested to your Timestream for InfluxDB v3 instance, and the ingested data will be queried. If any data was downloaded, the data will be deleted from disk.

Reviewer: one alternative to pushing dummy data to the repo would be to provide a small (and simple) data generation script, so users could quickly test between smaller vs larger payloads.

Author: I have kept the sample data that is in `./data/` and have added `generate_csv_file.py`, which generates a CSV file and offers a bit of customization of generated data. Also, all scripts now for the most part use command-line arguments.

2. [Download and install Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
3. Set the following environment variable:
   - `INFLUX_TOKEN`: The admin token from your Timestream for InfluxDB v3 instance.
4. For the samples that use data from S3:

   a. [Create an S3 bucket](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/create-bucket-overview.html). This can be done using the [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html):
      ```shell
      aws s3api create-bucket --bucket <bucket name> --region us-west-2 --create-bucket-configuration LocationConstraint=us-west-2
      ```

   b. Upload all files from `./data` to your bucket. You can use any path within the bucket. By default, the path `influxdb_v3_sample_data/` will be searched within the bucket. For example, CSV data would be searched for within the S3 bucket in `influxdb_v3_sample_data/sample_data.csv`. This can be done with the AWS CLI:
      ```shell
      # Uploading a single file.
      aws s3 cp ./data/sample_data.csv s3://<bucket name>/influxdb_v3_sample_data/

      # Bash, uploading all files in the ./data/ directory.

>       for f in ./data/*; do aws s3 cp $f s3://<bucket name>/influxdb_v3_sample_data; done

Reviewer: this won't work as is, as it rewrites each file to a file named `influxdb_v3_sample_data` in the bucket. Will need to add a trailing slash to influxdb_v3_sample_data, `aws s3 cp $f s3://<bucket name>/influxdb_v3_sample_data/`

Author: Added trailing slash to the example command.

- `--timestamp-column`: The name of the column to use as the time column in the data file. Defaults to `timestamp_utc`.
- `--tag-columns`: The names of the columns to use as tags in the data file, as a list. For example, `--tag-columns region meter_id`. Values will be random strings.
- `--field-columns`: The names of the columns to use as fields in the data file, as a list. For example, `--field-columns region meter_id`. Values will be random integers.
- `--num-rows`: The number of rows to generate.
- `--start-time`: The time to use as the initial generation point as an RFC 3339 timestamp. Defaults to 24 hours ago. For example, '2026-01-01T00:00:00Z' for UTC or '2026-01-01T00:00:00-08:00' for PST.
- `--time-increment`: The amount of time to increment between records. Defaults to one minute (`1m`). Supported time formats are hr, m, and s.

If you want to create a Parquet file from your generated CSV file, the script `csv_to_parquet.py` allows you to do this. It offers the following command-line argument:
- `--csv-file`: The path to the CSV file to transform to Parquet. The new Parquet file will be created in the same directory.

> 

Reviewer: This didn't work for me. I tried generating a csv (using defaults), uploaded to s3, and tried the s3 ingest sample, and got the following error:

```
influxdb_client_3.write_client.rest.ApiException: (400)
Reason: Bad Request
HTTP response headers: HTTPHeaderDict({'content-length': '83', 'date': 'Wed, 31 Dec 2025 19:03:05 GMT'})
HTTP response body: {"code":"invalid","message":"write buffer error: parsing for line protocol failed"}
```

This happens for parquets as well. also, it looks like the downloaded csv is different from the csv that I uploaded.

Author: I just generated CSV data, uploaded that data to S3, downloaded the CSV file, and `diff` showed that the two files were the same. How does your generated local file and the downloaded file differ?

This error can happen if you have an existing database in InfluxDB v3 with different data in it and the data you're trying to write doesn't match the schema of the existing data. You can delete an InfluxDB v3 database immediately with the CLI:
```shell
influxdb3 delete database my-test-database \
    --host <host> \
    --token <token> \
    --hard-delete now
```

How should we handle this? Is it enough to let users know and provide a command for deleting an existing database?
